
--- OCR_page_2 ---

صفحه ۲
320A
مهندسی کامپیوتر
زبان عمومی و تخصصی (انگلیسی)
PART A: Vocabulary
Directions: Choose the word or phrase (1), (2), (3), or (4) that best completes the blank. Then mark the correct choice on your answer sheet.
car has none of the features, like power windows and steering, that make modern cars so great.
2) superficial
3) aesthetic
4) hazardous
With several agencies regulating the reports, it was difficult for the accused to argue against its
2) relevance
3) veracity
Since Jack did not want a speeding ticket, he tried to
1- That
1) antiquated
2-
1) infamy
3-
her a compliment.
1) convict
4-
1) marginal
5-
1) demands
6-
2) appease
3) reinforce
Trudy studied harder, but there was only
agreed to get a tutor.
4) anticipation
the police officer by giving
4) escape
improvement in her grades, so she
2) commonplace 3) monotonous 4) unbearable
Living apes-chimpanzees, gorillas, orangutans, gibbons and siamangs-and humans share a constellation of that set them apart from other primates.
2) certainties
2) recognized
3) disciplines
4) traits
Have you ever noticed how a coin at the bottom of a swimming pool seems to wobble? This occurs because the water in the pool bends the path of light 1) generated Publicly available Web services (e.g. ------ various techniques to speed up and refine their searches.
from the coin. 3) reflected 4) differentiated Google, InfoSeek, Northernlight and AltaVista)
2) capture
3) determine
4) employ
Owing to the protests of the Dominicans and other regulars, the book was prohibited in
1760, but the second part was issued
7-
1) specify
8-
in 1768.
9-
1) meticulously 2) superstitiously While admissions offices do admit many ---------- and diverse community.
3) profoundly
1) mundane
2) controversial
4) recklessly
students with similar profiles, a college is still a
3) anonymous 4) heterogeneous
10- Despite the security, the thief's ability to break into the museum without being caught
remains an ----
1) infection
to the police.
2) enigma
3) illusion
4) authorization
PART B: Cloze Passage
Directions: Read the following passage and decide which choice (1), (2), (3), or (4) best fits each space. Then mark the correct choice on your answer sheet.
Thunder is caused by lightning, which is essentially a stream of electrons flowing between or within clouds or between a cloud and the ground. The air surrounding the electron stream becomes (11) hot-up to 50,000 degrees Fahrenheit— that it forms a resonating tube of partial vacuum (12)
air rapidly expands and contracts, (13)
the lightning's path. The nearby the column vibrate like a tubular
drumhead (14) ---------- a tremendous crack. As the vibrations gradually die out, the



--- OCR_page_3 ---

صفحه ۳
320A
مهندسی کامپیوتر
sound echoes and reverberates, generating the rumbling (15)
------ thunder. We can
hear the booms from great distances, 10 or more miles from the lightning that caused
them.
11- 1) very
3) too
3) that surround
4) enough
4) and surround
2) so
12- 1) surrounding 13- 1) that makes 14- 1) produces 15- 1) it is called
2) surrounds 2) and making
3) making
4) it makes
2) is produced by 2) is called
3) and produce 3) we call
4) and producing
4) which called
PART C: Reading Comprehension:
Directions: Read the following three passages and answer the questions by choosing the best choice (1), (2), (3), or (4). Then mark the correct choice on your answer sheet.
PASSAGE 1:
It has been theorized for basically as long as the Internet has been publicly available that being online can make you seriously, clinically depressed. It's not an assertion made without evidence, as numerous surveys of infrequent-to-addicted internet users show a positive correlation between their number of web surfing hours logged and their subsequent feelings of sadness, isolation, and alienation. Some critics postulate that heavy use of the internet more than doubles a person's chance of being depressed; others say that the internet might not be depression's trigger so much as it is its refuge.
When communicating in person, the entire interaction is punctuated with non-verbal cues that can totally supersede the meaning of the words within it. Absent the conversation partner right in front of you to indicate his or her sarcasm or sincerity, you have only your own filters through which to interpret the language. It should come as no surprise that your internal filters are surprisingly dependent on your present mood; thus a semantically ambiguous phrase like "no thanks" sent after a particularly rough commute home is much more easily-absorbed as a sardonic dismissal instead of-and perhaps how it was intended-a mere polite refusal.
If the opposite happens, and you are endowed with a ton of friends on Face book or some other social media site, other studies have demonstrated that your stress levels are likely through the roof. The higher your friend count, they say, the more likely you are to be consumed with publishing bite-sized and socially acceptable aspects of your personality to the online public, which only exacerbates issues with your real-life relationships. The end result: the stress of maintaining online friends prevents you from making and maintaining any more real ones.
16- According to the passage, on the subject of correlation between Internet use and depression:
1) It is only hypothesized
2) There are no proof for the correlation
3) Internet is only a trigger for depression
4) There are clear evidences for the correlation



--- OCR_page_4 ---

صفحه ۴
320A
مهندسی کامپیوتر
17- What aspect of Internet use might contribute to depression:
1) The refuge that internet provides
2) The wasted time spent surfing the web
3) The lack of movement while surfing the web
4) The news and material provided by the internet
18- According to the passage communicating with others on the Internet might be
misinterpreted because:
1) Your internal mood might change
2) Gestures are omitted from the conversation
3) Non-verbal cues play no part in an effective conversation
4) Conversation does not need non-verbal cues to be understood
19- A phrase like "no thanks" typed in an internet chat:
1) It would be interpreted correctly as a polite refusal
2) It would be interpreted correctly after a rough commute home 3) Might be interpreted as a sardonic dismissal while it was not 4) It would be interpreted much easier after a rough commute home.
20- Which of the following is correct:
1) Maintaining online friend is not a time consuming task
2) Having a lot of online friends relieves your stress level
3) Having a lot of online friends prevents you from making real friends
4) You would gain true public acceptability by having a lot of online friends
PASSAGE 2:
The Internet, with the aid of computer hotkeys, has given its users the incredibly easy ability to jump between tasks, subjects and ideas within a matter of seconds. Because there's no wait, we make these jumps frequently-really frequently-about every two minutes. Except we never actually utilize the "multi" part-or even the "task" part of the Internet's supposed gift. Instead, we get caught in the ceaseless mental doldrums between interrupting and restarting. And so, given that clear memories of single events are unattainable on the Internet, the brain attempts to compensate for that with blurry, multiple-exposure memories of everything that happened.
Multi-tasking in this sense can reduce one's ability to pay attention at all, and in turn reduces our ability to think critically and problem solve. Studies have shown that after a while, your ability to recall memories starts to deteriorate, along with your IQ. The more one multi-tasks, the greater the cognitive damage becomes and the harder it is for you to recover. And if these habits begin in childhood, the risk of developing an attention deficiency disorder spikes, as well as many other behavior problems down the line.
21- According to the passage, the multi-tasking ability of the internet:
1) Has not increased the efficiency of the Internet use
2) Has contributed to the focus of users on the Task part
3) Has contributed to the efficiency of users due to the multi part
4) Has significantly contributed to increase efficiency of the Internet use



--- OCR_page_5 ---

صفحه ۵
320A
مهندسی کامپیوتر
22- As a result of multi-tasking on the internet:
1) Brain produces a vague picture of all the events
2) Brain produces a complete picture of all the events
3) Bain focuses on a single event and produces a blurry picture
4) Brain compensates for the partial information and generates an accurate picture of the events
23- Multi-tasking:
1) Would help one's ability to understand a problem to be solved
2) Would help one to solve multiple problem the same time
3) Increases one's ability to focus on a problem
4) Reduces one's ability of problem solving 24- Multi-tasking:
1) Would increase one's IQ along with memory 2) Strengthen one's ability to remember things 3) Weakens one's ability to remember things
4) Would increase one's ability to recall memories along with your IQ 25- Multi-tasking on the Internet started at childhood:
1) Would not cause attention deficiency
2) Is not correlated with attention deficiency disorder
3) Prevents children from developing disorders down the line
4) Would increase the chance of developing attention deficiency disorder
PASSAGE 3:
If you had the opportunity to live forever, would you take it? The obstacles to keeping your body alive indefinitely still seem insurmountable, but some scientists think there is another possibility opened up by digital technology: creating a digital copy of your "self" and keeping that "alive" online long after your physical body has ceased to function. In effect, the proposal is to clone a person electronically. Unlike the familiar physical clones - offspring that have identical features as their parents, but that are completely separate organisms with a separate conscious life - your electronic clone would believe itself to be you. How might this be possible? The first step would be to map the brain.
Scientists predict that within two or three decades we will have nanotransmitters that can be injected into the bloodstream. In the capillaries of the brain they would line up alongside the neurons and detect the details of the cerebral electronic activity. They would be able to transmit that information to a receiver inside a special helmet or cap, so there would be no need for any wires protruding from the scalp. As a further step, Scientists envisage the nanotransmitters being able to connect you to a world of virtual reality on the internet. With the nanotransmitters in place, by thought alone, you could log on to the internet and instead of the pictures coming up on your screen they would play inside your mind. Rather than send your friends e-mails you would agree to meet up on some virtual tropical beach.



--- OCR_page_6 ---

صفحه ۶
320A
مهندسی کامپیوتر
For many this would be, quite literally, heaven. Once you upload the brain onto the internet and log on to that virtual world the body can be left to rot while your virtual self carries on its life.
26- What is the passage about?
1) It is about going to heaven using digital technology
2) It is about possibility of living for ever in digital form.
3) It is about simulating the heaven using digital technology
4) It is about how to use digital media properly in order to go to heaven
27- Is your digital clone the same as physical clone?
1) Yes, they are both exact copies of you
2) No, digital clone is a copy of your physical clone
3) No, digital clone and physical clone cannot co-exist
4) No, digital clone is a copy of yourself while a physical clone has a separate life 28- How the brain is mapped to generate a digital clone?
1) By transmitting all neuron activities in the brain by nanotransmitters to a special helmet
2) By transmitting all the neuron activities through wires protruding from the scalp 3) By detecting electronic activities of brain using a MRI scanner
4) By taking precise pictures of the brain using advanced tools
29- What kind of screen would you need to view pictures if you use your digital clone? 1) Any screen that used for virtual reality applications
2) No screen needed as the pictures come directly inside your mind
3) Special type of screen that is only used for virtual reality applications 4) Tiny screens that are implanted inside the brain by nanotransmitters
30- What happens to your digital clone after you die?
1) Digital clone is transported to heaven after you die
2) Digital clone lives as long as your physical clone lives
3) Digital clone continues to live in virtual world forever
4) Digital clone is highly dependent to your brain, so it would die if you die
