
--- OCR_page_2 ---

www.konkur.in
صفحه ۲
335C
مهندسی کامپیوتر (کد (۱۲۷۷
داوطلب گرامی عدم درج مشخصات و امضا در مندرجات کادر زیر به منزله عدم حضور شما در جلسه آزمون است.
با شماره داوطلبی
با آگاهی کامل یکسان بودن شماره صندلی خود با
اینجانب شماره داوطلبی مندرج در بالای کارت ورود به جلسه بالای پاسخنامه و دفترچه سؤالات نوع و کدکنترل درج شده بر روی جلد دفترچه سؤالات و پایین پاسخ نامه ام را تأیید مینمایم
امضا
PART A: Vocabulary
زبان عمومی و تخصصی (انگلیسی)
1-
2-
Directions: Choose the word or phrase (1), (2), (3), or (4) that best completes each sentence. Then mark the answer on your answer sheet.
.....
because evolution selected
One theory holds that humans became highly those of our forefathers who were especially good at solving problems. 1) successive
2) concerned
3) passionate
4) intelligent the feared heating of the earth's atmosphere
Is it true that the greenhouse by burning coal and oil, is just another false alarm? 1) effect
4) warmth motives operate in some reasonable
3) force
3) selfish
Whatever the immediate
.....
4) prime
of the Nigerian-led intervention, West African
diplomats said the long-term impact of recent events in Sierra Leone would be disastrous.
2) energy
3-
In most people, the charitable and kind of balance.
....
1) obvious
2) high
4-
1) reciprocity
2) outcome
5-
1) postpone
2) accuse
6-
the three "Die Hards."
1) an auspicious
2) a stirring
7-
....
The last thing I would wish to do is to animosity in an otherwise idyllic environment.
While the movie offers unsurpassed action,
4) meditation
a sense of ill will, deception or
3) reversal
3) foster
3) an edifying
4) divest
script makes this the least of
4) a feeble
Relations between Communist China and the Soviet Union have unfortunately begun to again after a period of relative restraint in their ideological quarrel. We
can only hope that common sense prevails again.
1) ameliorate
2) deteriorate
PART B: Cloze Test
3) solemnize
4) petrify
Directions: Read the following passage and decide which choice (1), (2), (3), or (4) best fits each space. Then mark the correct choice on your answer sheet.
Before the 1970s, the Olympic Games were officially limited to competitors with amateur status, but in the 1980s, many events
..(8) to professional athletes.
Telegram: @uni_k



--- OCR_page_3 ---

www.konkur.in
صفحه ۳
335C
مهندسی کامپیوتر (کد ۱۲۷۷
Currently, the Games are open to all, even the top professional athletes in basketball and football. The ancient Olympic Games included several of the sports
.(9) of
the Summer Games program, which at times has included events in as many as 32 different sports. In 1924, the Winter Games were sanctioned for winter sports. ...(10) regarded as the world's foremost sports competition.
8-
1) to be opened
3) were opened
9-
1) that are now part
3) now are parts
10-
1) The Olympic Games came to have been
2) The Olympic Games have come to be 3) The fact is the Olympic Games to be 4) That the Olympic Games have been
PART C: Reading Comprehension
2) that were opening
4) opening
2) which now being part
4) had now been parts
Directions: Read the following three passages and answer the questions by choosing the best choice (1), (2), (3), or (4). Then mark the correct choice on your answer sheet.
PASSAGE 1:
The emergence of computers and the Internet is among the most technological advances that has happened in the twentieth century. Individuals have gained greater access to information of all sorts, and the gap that exists between technology and human intellect is getting thinner. As societies utilize the technology in various fields, some new ethical concerns have arisen. Extensive use of the technology has also made possible potentially unethical activities such as violation of individual privacy and other illegal forays into private network spaces. Not all network users are honest individuals, and not all of them adhere to ethical standards of moral behavior.
Some computer users keep a large amount of their personal information on their computer systems or on the network spaces in social media. The use of social media is on the rise. As a result of this, hackers and other intruders have a greater opportunity to access private data, and use them for unlawful purposes. These concerns contributed to the rise of a field known as computer ethics which deals with the procedures, values and practices that govern the process of consuming computing technology and its related disciplines in a way that does not damage or violate the moral values and beliefs of any individual, organization or society.
11- The underlined word "utilize” in paragraph 1 is closest in meaning to
1) produce
3) employ
2) improve 4) analyze
12- The underlined word "them" in paragraph 1 refers to
....
1) standards
2) network spaces
3) activities
Telegram: @uni_k
4) network users



--- OCR_page_4 ---

www.konkur.in
صفحه ۴
335C
مهندسی کامپیوتر (کد ۱۲۷۷
13- According to paragraph 1, the appearance of the computer technology and the internet
14-
in the 20th century
..... •
1) fully closed the gap that once existed between technology and human intellect
2) in a way resulted in some new questions about their ethical dimensions
3) increased the gap between ethical and unethical usage of data
4) prevented any opportunity of unethical usage of private data All of the following words are mentioned in the passage EXCEPT 1) unlawful 2) moral 3) cutting-edge
......
4) honest
15- According to the passage, which of the following statements is true? 1) Computer ethics was in part developed as a response to the threat posed by hackers and other intruders who do not follow ethical standards.
2) Extensive use of the technology has decreased the risk of potentially unethical activities such as violation of individual privacy.
3) Hackers utilize computer ethics as an opportunity to employ computing technology and its related disciplines to their own advantage.
4) Computer ethics concerns the practices that govern the production of computer units in a way that does not damage the best interest either of corporations or of consumers.
PASSAGE 2:
The first "computers" were ancient tools that were used to do addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division. Some early examples of this would be the ancient Chinese invention known as the abacus. These older tools were in a sense computers because they did what modern computers do: take information and turn it into logical operations. Logical operations are instructions that someone gives a computer and tells it what to do. Older tools still required humans to do things to make them work. But modern computers use power and can be programmed to do things automatically.
The first computer, as we would think of one today, was created in 1823 by a man named Charles Babbage in England. Charles Babbage invented all the parts that are now used for a modern computer. He called the machine he was working on the "Difference Engine" but unfortunately he never finished it. Ten years later, another man named George Scheutz read about the "Difference Engine" and was excited about what Babbage had been working on. Together with his son Edward, Scheutz began to work on a smaller version. Twenty years later, by 1853, the father and son had constructed a machine that could process 15-digit numbers and calculate fourth-order differences. This was very advanced programming for a machine at that time. Their machine won a gold medal at the Exhibition of Paris in 1855, and later they sold it to the Dudley Observatory in Albany, New York. The Dudley Observatory later used it to calculate the path to the planet Mars.
16- The underlined word "required" in paragraph 1 is closest in meaning to
1) acted up 3) empowered
2) assisted 4) relied on
17- The invention known as the abacus was probably a
1) device
3) game
Telegram: @uni_k
2) formula
4) sub-discipline



--- OCR_page_5 ---

www.konkur.in
صفحه ۵
335C
مهندسی کامپیوتر (کد (۱۲۷۷
18- According to paragraph 1, ..............
1) the Chinese were the first people to discover mathematical laws 2) early computers were able to do simple mathematical operations
3) unlike older tools, modern computers do not require logical operations 4) logical operations refer to a unique approach to manufacturing computers 19- According to paragraph 2, which of the following statements is true? 1) George Scheutz coined the term "Difference Engine" in 1853.
2) George Scheutz's machine was used for astronomical calculations.
3) Babbage invented the first modern computer at the beginning of the 18th century. 4) Babbage won the gold medal at the Exhibition of Paris for his "Difference Engine." 20- The passage provides sufficient information to answer which of the following questions? I. In which country was the first computer as we think of it produced?
II. In what sense were older tools similar to computers? III. How long is the distance to the planet Mars?
1) Only I
PASSAGE 3:
2) Only II
3) I and III
4) I and II
Quantum computation is a field of much interest and activity. Much of the interest was stimulated by Shor's discovery that there is a quantum computation algorithm for the integer factoring problem that is more efficient than any known classical algorithm. [1] This result has stimulated much work that represents steps in the long-term goal of physical construction of quantum computers. This includes work on quantum error- correction codes and physical models of quantum gates, quantum Hall systems, and nuclear magnetic resonance to carry out parallel quantum computation.
The optimism about reaching the long-term goal that is implicit in this work is tempered by the work of Landauer. [2] As a critic, Landauer correctly points out the enormous obstacles in the path of construction of efficient quantum computers. These include effects of environmental noise with respect to which quantum computers are exquisitely sensitive, errors in constructing the Hamiltonian, and errors in constructing the initial state. As Landauer notes, these errors can cause unwanted reflections of the computational process that reduce the amplitude of the transmitted component that represents the completed computation. Work in which potential barriers causing reflection are introduced intentionally where the potential distribution is 'deterministically disordered', suggests that in some cases, these problems may be less severe than otherwise thought.
Building quantum computers is incredibly difficult. Many candidate qubit systems exist on the scale of single atoms, and the physicists, engineers, and materials scientists who are trying to execute quantum operations on these systems constantly deal with two competing requirements. [3] First, qubits need to be protected from the environment because it can destroy the delicate quantum states needed for computation. The longer a qubit survives in its desired state the longer its "coherence time." From this perspective, isolation is prized. Second, however, for algorithm execution qubits need to be entangled, shuffled around physical architectures, and controllable on demand. The better these operations can be carried out the higher their "fidelity.” [4]
Telegram: @uni_k



--- OCR_page_6 ---

www.konkur.in
صفحه ۶
335C
مهندسی کامپیوتر (کد (۱۲۷۷
21- Which of the following techniques is used in paragraph 1?
1) Definition
3) Cause and effect
2) Statistics 4) Rhetorical question
22- According to paragraph 2, which of the following is true about Landauer?
1) His ideas ultimately led to solutions for many of the problems of quantum computation. 2) His work highlighted the challenges facing the construction of efficient quantum computers. 3) He later admitted that the challenges facing quantum computation were negligible. 4) He drew attention to the impossibility of constructing quantum computers. 23- What does paragraph 3 mainly discuss?
1) The difficulty of constructing quantum computers
2) Competing models of computation using quantum technology
3) The last challenge to overcome in building quantum computers
4) Qubit efficiency and a ground-breaking solution to its optimum realization
24- According to the passage, which of the following statements is true?
1) Quantum computers are particularly versatile because qubits are highly robust and efficient in diverse environmental conditions.
2) Shor's ideas about different computational methods were highly influential in the development of early traditional computers.
3) In quantum computers, qubits must be rearranged across physical architectures, and controllable as needed for algorithms to work.
4) Landauer was a computer manufacturer who identified many problems in the field, and his ideas paved the way for transition from classical to quantum computation. 25- In which position marked by [1], [2], [3] or [4], can the following sentence best be inserted in the passage?
Balancing the required isolation and interaction is difficult, but after decades of research a few systems are emerging as top candidates for large-scale quantum information processing. 1) [4] 2) [3]
3) [2]
4) [1]
Telegram: @uni_k
ریاضیات ریاضی عمومی (۱) و (۲) آمار و احتمال مهندسی، ریاضیات گسسته)
۲۶ سری
in " (1-) به کدام عدد، همگرا است؟
n=1
n+۲
In (1) ۲۱۲ ۲
In ~ (M
In (
a > 0, (x*+y
a′(x” — y3)
۲۷- مساحت ناحیهٔ محصور به منحنی کدام است؟
(1
こ
۲
a
(۲
ra
۴۵۲ (۴
